Minkowski multiplication for semigroups, monoids, and commutative monoids (#1309)
UniMath/agda-unimath: src/group-theory/minkowski-multiplication-semigroups.lagda.md

> # Minkowski multiplication of semigroup subtypes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Minkowski multiplication on subsets of a semigroup
```

```agda
module group-theory.minkowski-multiplication-semigroups where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import foundation.action-on-identifications-functions
open import foundation.cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.conjunction
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.existential-quantification
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.functoriality-cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.inhabited-subtypes
open import foundation.powersets
open import foundation.propositions
open import foundation.sets
open import foundation.subtypes
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import group-theory.semigroups
open import group-theory.subsets-semigroups

open import logic.functoriality-existential-quantification
```

</details>

## Idea

> For two [subsets](group-theory.subsets-semigroups.md) `A`, `B` of a
> [semigroup](group-theory.semigroups.md) `S`, the Minkowski multiplication of `A`
> and `B` is the set of elements that can be formed by multiplying an element of
> `A` and an element of `B`. (This is more usually referred to as a Minkowski sum,
> but as the operation on semigroups is referred to as `mul`, we use
> multiplicative terminology.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given two [subsets](group-theory.subsets-semigroups.md) `A` and `B` of a
[semigroup](group-theory.semigroups.md) `S`, the {{#concept "Minkowski multiplication" Disambiguation="on subsets of a semigroup" Agda=minkowski-mul-Semigroup}} of `A`
and `B` is the [set](foundation-core.sets.md) of elements that can be formed by multiplying an element of
`A` and an element of `B`. This binary operation defines a semigroup structure on the [powerset](foundation.powersets.md) of `S`.
```

## Definition

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level}
  (G : Semigroup l1)
  (A : subset-Semigroup l2 G)
  (B : subset-Semigroup l3 G)
  where

  minkowski-mul-Semigroup : subset-Semigroup (l1 ⊔ l2 ⊔ l3) G
  minkowski-mul-Semigroup c =

>     ∃

Reviewer 2: The first argument of a single symbol function usually goes on the same line

      ( type-Semigroup G × type-Semigroup G)
      ( λ (a , b) →
        A a ∧ B b ∧ Id-Prop (set-Semigroup G) c (mul-Semigroup G a b))
```

## Properties

> ### Minkowski multiplication of semigroup subsets is associative

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Minkowski multiplication on subsets of a semigroup is associative
```

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level}
  (G : Semigroup l1)
  (A : subset-Semigroup l2 G)
  (B : subset-Semigroup l3 G)
  (C : subset-Semigroup l4 G)
  where

>   associative-minkowski-mul-sim-Semigroup :

Reviewer: This should be `essentially-associative-minkowski-mul-Semigroup` or `sim-associative-minkowski-mul-Semigroup`

    antisymmetric-sim-subtype
      ( minkowski-mul-Semigroup G (minkowski-mul-Semigroup G A B) C)
      ( minkowski-mul-Semigroup G A (minkowski-mul-Semigroup G B C))
      ( associative-minkowski-mul-sim-Semigroup)
```

### Minkowski multiplication of subsets of a semigroup forms a semigroup

```agda
module _
  {l : Level}
  (G : Semigroup l)
  where

  semigroup-minkowski-mul-Semigroup : Semigroup (lsuc l)
  pr1 semigroup-minkowski-mul-Semigroup = subtype-Set l (type-Semigroup G)
  pr1 (pr2 semigroup-minkowski-mul-Semigroup) = minkowski-mul-Semigroup G
  pr2 (pr2 semigroup-minkowski-mul-Semigroup) =
    associative-minkowski-mul-Semigroup G
```

### The Minkowski multiplication of two inhabited subsets of a semigroup is inhabited

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 : Level}
  (G : Semigroup l1)
  (A : subset-Semigroup l2 G)
  (B : subset-Semigroup l3 G)
  where

  minkowski-mul-inhabited-is-inhabited-Semigroup :
    is-inhabited-subtype A →
    is-inhabited-subtype B →
    is-inhabited-subtype (minkowski-mul-Semigroup G A B)
  minkowski-mul-inhabited-is-inhabited-Semigroup =
    map-binary-exists
      ( is-in-subtype (minkowski-mul-Semigroup G A B))
      ( mul-Semigroup G)

>       λ a b a∈A b∈B → intro-exists (a , b) (a∈A , b∈B , refl)

Reviewer 2: We put lambdas in parentheses even when they are the last argument, so Agda doesn't require them

Author: Yes, and I usually catch that from Agda's autocomplete things.  My bad.

```

> ### Containment is preserved by Minkowski multiplication of semigroup subtypes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Containment of subsets is preserved by Minkowski multiplication
```

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 l3 l4 : Level}
  (G : Semigroup l1)
  (B : subset-Semigroup l2 G)
  (A : subset-Semigroup l3 G)
  (A' : subset-Semigroup l4 G)
  where

  preserves-leq-left-minkowski-mul-Semigroup :
    A ⊆ A' → minkowski-mul-Semigroup G A B ⊆ minkowski-mul-Semigroup G A' B
  preserves-leq-left-minkowski-mul-Semigroup A⊆A' x =
    map-tot-exists (λ (a , b) → map-product (A⊆A' a) id)

  preserves-leq-right-minkowski-mul-Semigroup :
    A ⊆ A' → minkowski-mul-Semigroup G B A ⊆ minkowski-mul-Semigroup G B A'
  preserves-leq-right-minkowski-mul-Semigroup A⊆A' x =
    map-tot-exists (λ (b , a) → map-product id (map-product (A⊆A' a) id))
```

> ### Similarity is preserved by Minkowski multiplication of semigroup subtypes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Similarity of subsets is preserved by Minkowski multiplication
```
